Silcer Gnome SILC Client
========================

This is Silcer, the Gnome SILC Client.  It is only provided with SILC 
Toolkit package as an example GUI application, to show how to program with 
SILC Toolkit.  It is a good example for all GUI programmers to figure out 
how to hook up SILC Toolkit, and in the end the SILC Client Library to a 
GUI application.

The silcer.png file found in this package is a screenshot of the 
application in action.  You can compile it by running first the 
./autogen.sh script and then giving command `make' or `gmake'.

When you run the silcer you must run it by giving command src/silcer 
because it will attempt to look for GUI files in the ui/ directory found 
in this package.  So, do not enter src/ directory, but run it directly 
from the root where you gave the make command.

When the program starts it will attempt to connect directly to 
silc.silcnet.org router on port 706.  After it has connected you can 
freely use it as any SILC client.  In the input box on the screen you can 
give commands.  Commands, such as /nick, /join, etc.  The application is 
only an example so all features has not been implemented.  For example 
various command notifications and other notifications are not implemented 
on the screen.  This means that when you give command /nick you won't 
actually see whether your nickname changed or not.  But it did. :)  Same 
is when you join to a channel by giving command /join you won't get list 
of users or other familiar things.  This is because those notifications 
has not been implemented.  They are left as an excerise for Toolkit 
programmers.  You can still converse on a channel.  You will see other 
users' messages on the channel and you can talk to the channel, so you can 
test the application if you like.

The sources resides in the src/ directory and are C++.  The GUI files 
resides in ui/ directory and was done with glade.

Happy hacking!
